(tense music playing)
It's Regionals.
Where Have All the Children Gone
is a very dark piece of music.
The highest group routine--
Where Have All the Children Gone.
ABBY: Two hundred and eighty acts,
and they were first.
CATHY: Brooke is now wearing Vivi's top.
I'm not happy.
I don't want Brooke wearing the costume.
-My daughter is dancing...
-CATHY: I don't approve.
-...in three minutes.
-Well, I'm sorry.
KELLY: And you're taking
the costume off of her back.
-CATHY: I know.
-Go back to your studio.
You know what? I'm not. I'm here to stay,
so like it.
ABBY: Coming up on Dance Moms...
Two--arms, Nia!
Three--where are those arms?
I want her in an Afro.
HOLLY: The same type of thing.
She should just pick
some cotton or something.
That's the next thing she'll pull out.
I just wanted to warn you that
Dawn Check is here to talk to you.
She should be here to pay her bill.
You never paid for the rest of your solo.
You broke the contract.
I don't owe you anything.
I'll see you in court.
I feel like the eyelashes are drooping.
Do I need to staple your eyebrows up?
I pay, what, almost $100,000 a year
in private school tuition,
and you're telling me I can't afford you?
I did not say that.
-Right now--
-That's what you just told me.
(theme music playing)
SINGER: ♪Get up ♪
♪Get on the floor ♪
♪My world is with my girls
living on the dance floor ♪
(quirky music playing)
ABBY: This weekend we were
in Providence, Rhode Island,
an hour outside of Boston.
Some of the most prestigious dance studios
in the country are there--
tough schools, tough competitors.
And you really held your own.
You won that victory cup.
You killed it. I'm very proud.
(applause)
ABBY: Excellent. I'm very proud
of every one of you,
and you know I don't say that too often.
I'm also am very proud that all
the moms kept their mouths shut
and didn't say anything to me.
See how much nicer it is
when everything goes so smoothly?
It was wonderful.
Now if only the moms could learn
to be team players like their daughters,
then we'd be in business.
I never saw such disorganization
in all my life.
Go back to your studio!
You know what? I'm not. I'm here to stay,
so like it.
KELLY: I don't. Neither does anybody else.
Now let's talk about
this week's competition.
We are going to what?
CHILDREN: Starpower!
It's at the Mohegan Sun in Connecticut,
and it's a resort.
It's all self-contained.
We can't forget anything.
So we will have a wardrobe for each day
that they are going to be there,
just like the old school days.
Yes?
And you will park here, in front of me,
so that I know that you have everything.
Let's talk about the board.
First of all, everybody
worked together as a team.
That teamwork is going
to help you at Nationals.
That's what's going
to put you over the top--
teamwork and technique.
Those are the two things
that we're going to concentrate on
this week.
Moms...
we're doing another new number!
(cheering and applause)
One more costume!
This week's group number
is entitled Make You Mine.
It's a theatrical jazz routine.
It's upbeat, it's fun, classic jazz.
This week, I'm going to ask you
to work harder
than you've ever worked before.
We need to show up and walk in there
like we own the place.
And I will give you a pack list
for clothes for the trip,
and I want them dressed
a certain way every single day
that we are there.
Does everyone understand that Yes?
Moms, thank you very much.
Ladies, let's get up.
Let's go.
Push through.
Tighten your abs.
Stronger arm. Stronger arm.
Stronger arm.
Passé.
MELISSA: Vivi and Mackenzie
were still on the bottom of the board.
WOMAN: Yeah, I didn't like that, at all.
Because they were in the team that won.
-MELISSA: I--
-CATHY: Regardless of what they did,
-they contributed.
-Oh, I didn't even think about.
CATHY: And I thought that
that was really stinky.
MELISSA: They should have
put the babies on the top.
-That's right. It should have been--
-MELISSA: I mean, not the babies, but--
I mean, it's like,
god, don't ever give anybody
-just a little inch.
-That's why Mackenzie
doesn't want to dance anymore.
She's like, it's always all
about all the other girls
and, you know--
Your ribs are open. Derriere is out.
Tighten it. Tighten it, no squishy.
CATHY: And I just hope that
you guys are prepared with a costume,
and that you guys stop sharing costumes.
Because, yeah,
there is so much of teamwork,
but it's ridiculous
when you're looking at a six-year-old
and you're thirteen,
to cram into her costume.
No offense to you
because you were only doing
what she told you to do.
But I paid for the costumes
and I didn't like it.
So I think that, for now,
it's over and done with
and we need to move forward
KELLY: Cathy is acting like a bitch.
And she was way out of line
whenever she came up to me
three numbers before Brooke went on stage
and took her costume off of her body.
But my advice, as a dance teacher,
you moms need to step up
and make sure that she's on top of things
with your costumes.
Vivi's very young
and you're new,
so you're kind of still
in the honeymoon period.
So she may not take it out--
but give her--give her some time.
Then she'll start taking
out her frustrations
on you on your daughter.
Well, all I'm going to do is flash her
a couple of dead presidents.
Hopefully, that'll work.
-WOMAN: (laughs)
-That'll settle her.
(indistinct chatter)
That'll settle her down right now,
some dead presidents.
-MELISSA: That'll help her.
-HOLLY: That might work.
(dramatic music playing)
ABBY: All right.
Now, remember, you're an angel.
So you need to be pretty and beautiful
with beautiful feet,
not Fred Flintstone flat feet. Got it?
Maddie is doing a breathtakingly
gorgeous lyrical routine.
It's entitled Angel,
and she wears a stunning white costume.
(jazz music playing)
SINGER: ♪You are the sky,
the moon at night ♪
♪You are my life, a shining light ♪
♪These things, I've learned,
are never ending ♪
MADDIE: I'm doing this dance called Angel
for my grandmother, Babcia,
and I hope that she is proud.
And I know that she is watching me
from heaven.
(indistinct singing)
You know that song Angel is for my mom?
CHRISTI: I know. Maddie was telling me.
She's so excited about it.
MELLISA: My mom was diagnosed with cancer
when I was really young.
And my mom meant the world to me.
Her and I were close,
just like Maddie and I are.
The other day, I was a little freaked out
because, like, I smelled her.
And it was like--it was so weird.
You know, I look at a picture every day
when I get my coffee,
and you now, I have her little handwriting
on my cabinet,
you know?
And I don't know. I just miss her so much,
I can't stand it.
CHRISTI: Like, you think, like,
I want to pick up the phone and call them.
-And you're like--
-MELLISA: I still do it.
I sometimes say,
oh, I have to tell my mom about this.
You know?
And then I'm like, she's not there.
KELLY: I can't imagine
not having a parent.
Oh, I mean, I have nobody.
When I look at Maddie I see my mom.
Because my mom had the blue eyes
that Maddie has.
And I always say to her,
my mom gave me you.
When she left me, she gave me you.
(jazz music playing)
Chug, chug, chug, chug,
and you're moving forward a little bit.
But more hips--big.
Nia is doing a character piece
entitled LaQuifa.
It's sassy, it's snap,
and hip, and head pop.
Go.
See how you're, like, going
to fall when you finish?
I don't want to see that.
Do it again. Push!
Staggering again. Come on.
Nia is African-American,
and I'm trying to teach her
different ethnic dances.
And I'm trying to train her
so that when she is in New York or LA
and the casting call says ethnic,
she can do all of the dances correctly.
Your abdominal muscles, engage them.
Now march in your own circle,
nose up in the air.
Go. One, two, three, four.
You're going to swing this down,
five, and fan kick big,
forced arch flex, seven and eight.
Good.
Before I start another solo
and before I start yelling about your feet
and your legs being sloppy,
this is the difference
between winning and overall.
This is the difference
between winning a title right here--
the technique.
Explain that word to me.
-Um--
-We use it all the time.
What does technique mean?
I think it means that you, um...
I really don't know.
You really don't know?
And how many times
have you heard it in dance?
A thousand times.
If you were reading a book
and they used the word a thousand times
and you didn't understand it,
-wouldn't you go look up the word?
-Yeah.
Abby pushes me really hard,
but I don't mind
because it makes me a better dancer.
Go ahead out on the floor.
Let me see your best jump.
I know you're teaching until 7:30,
but I just wanted to warn you
that Dawn Check is here
to talk to you.
She should be here to pay her bill.
She's going to speak to you, so--
-ABBY: Okay. I'll be out in a few minutes.
-MELISSA: Okay.
Minister Dawn--she has a lot of nerve
showing up at my dance studio
after which she pulled the last time
she was there.
I mean, I can't believe
that she has the gall to show her face
after the police hauled her out of here.
Every week, we put the trash out.
Go!
Then take yourself out!
Because you're the biggest
piece of trash there is!
-May I have your phone?
-Call the police!
Go for it!
-I'm sorry, girls.
-DAWN: Go for it!
There's a psycho in every batch.
A psycho? Yes!
Her name's Abigail Miller!
-ABBY: Hi. I need police.
-(siren blaring)
(indistinct chatter)
All right. You gotta go.
Take you daughter somewhere else then
if you don't like the dance company here.
This time, I'm prepared.
I have 911 on speed dial.
(tense music playing)
ABBY: ...seven and eight.
MELISSA: I know your teaching until 7:30,
but I just wanted to warn you
um, that Dawn Check is here
to talk to you.
She should be here to pay her bill.
Go somewhere else!
Take your money, take your kid,
take your socks,
find another school!
-I am--
-Why are you right?
It's my building!
-My name's on the front of it!
-So what!
-(screams) Quit chasing me!
-Go for it!
Hi. I need police.
I have an--a parent that's out of control.
-Have a seat.
-DAWN: I just thought it would be better
if we spoke in person.
ABBY: I am busy, busy, busy, busy.
Okay. You never paid
for the rest of your solo.
-I didn't think you would come in.
-Yeah, I'm not going to do that.
Okay. Well, it needs to be paid.
This is your contract.
-DAWN: I understand.
-This is--this is--
But the contract was broken.
No.
When you throw me out
and tell me to get out
-and not come back...
-No.
-...that makes it broken.
-No, it doesn't.
You broke the contract.
I don't owe you anything.
I'll see you in court.
Believe me, Dawn, I've done it before.
And you're going to have the court costs,
you're going to have my time in there--
Unless I win.
And then--then what happens?
How would you win?
Your daughter wore a costume,
took a picture in it,
and you're claiming
that you don't need to pay for it?
That's called fact by deception.
You can use all the words you want to use.
-I will.
-DAWN: But it's a breach of contract.
Okay. It's time for you to go.
Well, all right.
Have a nice day.
That Minister Dawn
needs a Bible refresher course.
Thou shall not lie, thou shall not steal,
and thou shall not disrespect Abby.
(quirky music playing)
Okay, ladies.
This is your pack list
for the competition.
Now, I didn't get into too much detail,
since you guys go away all the time.
When we go to a competition,
everyone involved
is representing me, Abby Lee Miller.
So I want my girls to look professional,
and I want the moms
to look professional, too.
Cathy, the reason we do this
is so it's easy for me to find the kids.
When I'm traveling with children
and I need to get them quickly--
I want to take a photo, somebody shows up
and then they all look good
for my program book.
CATHY: I'm all about themes,
but these little themed outfits
-are just for the children and not--
-ABBY: Oh, no, no, no, no.
They're for everyone attending.
Hold the phone for just a moment.
Because we've already went shopping
and we've bought some fabulous clothes.
And I'm seeing here black
and white night time,
and I'm going to assume
that you're talking about banquets.
And I have a fabulous fuchsia formal
that I'm going to be wearing,
and she has green.
I'm sorry I can't follow Abby's rules.
When Candy Apples steps out,
we do it in style.
We don't dress like the help.
You do remember
that I am not a team player.
And we will be packing at home.
And what we pack is what we're bringing.
-This may not be totally conducive--
-Do not make your child an outcast.
-Oh, we would love for Vivi to blend.
-ABBY: Yes.
But the reason why we're here
is to stand out.
I'd like to say that I'm smarter
than the average bear.
And I like to pull the rug out
from underneath them
and take their focus away
from what's going on,
so that I get in my way.
All right. Everybody understands, yes?
Mothers, I have your word? Cathy?
Oh, well, I'll have to think about it.
(tense music playing)
(instrumental music playing)
-CATHY: Vivi.
-VIVI-ANNE: Hm?
You know what I found out?
At Starpower they have a costume award.
-VIVI-ANNE: Cool.
-And you have to put your photo in.
So I think that we're going
to enter your pink costume.
At Starpower they have a photogenic award.
I would love for Vivi to be able
to have the opportunity
to model in a costume book
because that's what I did
when I was little.
And it was a great experience,
very exciting.
And I think it would be wonderful to know
that her picture was going
all over the country.
-You know what else, too, Vivi?
-Hm?
There will probably be a lot
-of photographers there.
-Okay.
CATHY: It'll be like
you're the glamour girl.
-Uh-huh.
-CATHY: Okay?
That'd be fun.
Maybe Mommy can get in a couple of shots.
VIVI-ANNE: Yeah.
My mom wants me to be famous.
I don't want to be a model.
(instrumental music playing)
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: All right, girls, the new number
that we're going to do
for this competition
is called Make You Mine.
Everybody say that.
CHILDREN: Make you mine.
I want you to go out,
and I want you to get
the older girls' black chairs.
This week's group number
is entitled Make You Mine.
And we use the chairs
because the kids have done a Fosse number
and they were familiar
with working on the chairs.
It's high energy,
and the kids love the number.
They get to dance like teenagers,
so they love it.
SINGER: ♪Slip my lace on,
put on my make-up ♪
One, two,
three, four--jeté.
Roll.
Turn that foot out, Nia!
Arms, up straight!
One, two, arms, Nia!
Three--where are those arms?
Last night at dinner with your dad--
that's where the arms are.
SINGER: ♪I'm your fantasy girl ♪
It's so frustrating to watch Nia dance.
She makes the same mistakes
over and over again.
Pop up! I want it strong!
This is the third time in 20 minutes
I'm telling you the same thing.
I don't know what I'm going to do
about Nia.
If she doesn't step it up,
she's going to blow it
for the rest of the girls in the group.
You're the last one.
And it was 100%, 100%,
100%, 100%, 50%.
One more time, do it.
One, two, three, four, five.
It's still not sharp enough.
It has to come up.
Watch it when the next group does it.
Ready? Let's go.
SINGER: ♪So we can get it on,
I'm going to make you mine ♪
I try to do everything right,
but sometimes it's too hard.
Five, six, seven, eight
and a one, two, three--
(quirky music playing)
I have costumes!
(cheering and applause)
-WOMAN: Oh, girls, look at that!
-Woo-hoo!
All right, Nia, you're going
to put this on first, sweetie.
The costume is darling.
It's really, like, a satire
on the drag queen image.
And it's over the top,
and it's fun, fun, fun.
And it's right up Nia's alley.
Then, put the pants, and the crop top,
and everything else on, after that.
NIA: I loved my costume for LaQuifa.
I thought it was amazing. (laughs)
Chloe, this is you.
Again, it's not what I drew.
I should have sent the fabric.
Hello. Sorry.
-Hi.
-HOLLY: Hi.
I arrived just in time for costumes,
and it's always interesting to see
what Abby will pull
out of her bag of tricks.
Girls! Brooke!
-Oh, we're not too bad.
-KELLY: Oh, my gosh.
You're a lot bigger than we think!
CHRISTI: OK. I know it's--oh, my god, Nia!
-HOLLY: You know what? Let me--
-(laughter)
MELISSA: Was it hard to get in?
HOLLY: Why is my daughter the only one
dressed in animal print?
Is this a joke?
ABBY: Can you walk down there, sweetie,
and let me see you?
HOLLY: All the other girls
get feminine, beautiful,
whimsical costumes
that aren't typecasting them.
And, you know what? I want her in an Afro.
Do you have one from when we did
My Hair Looks Fierce?
Let me just pull it out of my purse.
No, I don't have a Afro!
Oh, my... (laughing)
If not, Penn Hill Shopping Center.
You don't have an afro in your purse?
I just--I just changed purses.
Are you kidding me?
No, I don't have an Afro.
That's not the black experience
that we know.
And there's nothing wrong with LaQuifa--
the LaQuifas of the world.
But that's not Nia's experience.
It is not my experience.
My name is Holly.
I'm as far away from LaQuifa
as you can get.
That is not who I am
and that is not who Nia is.
ABBY: Turn around.
Holly wants her daughter
to be like every other little girl.
Nia has an advantage over everybody else.
She can play many different ethnicities.
And it's my job to make her
capitalize those opportunities.
Different is good.
She has what it takes,
and yet her mom wants her
to be like Paige, and Maddie, and Chloe.
This is show business.
When they're looking
for somebody different,
they're going to love Nia.
I think these could go a little higher.
(dramatic music playing)
I can't take all the late night.
I never drink.
But after having to buy an Afro
and seeing that Leopard costume,
I about had it.
What I took objection to was
just about the whole LaQuifa number.
I never have denied my Black heritage.
I'm very proud of it.
But it has to--I don't want
to be a stereotypical
-from the '70s wearing an Afro.
-And I agree with that.
We're in the 21st century.
KELLY: I think Holly's
being a little overdramatic.
Her daughter's wearing an Afro wig.
What's the big deal?
She's going to have her picking cotton.
Might as well, or a scarf on her head
and being Aunt Jemima.
-I don't want that.
-Did you just say picking cotton?
-HOLLY: Well, that's what it's like.
-(laughter)
It's the same type of thing.
Swing low sweet chariot,
and just let's pick some cotton
or something.
-KELLY: It doesn't--like--
-We have worked so hard
-to get beyond that.
-KELLY: I agree with you.
HOLLY: For me, it's very political.
Politics is all about who has to power
and who has the control.
I don't have the power
to choose Nia's music.
Abby gets to choose that.
And Abby has the control
and the power in depicting
how she wants Nia portrayed.
I'm definitely frustrated.
I'm at the end of my rope.
I don't know if I'm going to be able
to hang in there much longer.
(upbeat music playing)
(indistinct chatter)
ABBY: Bus driver,
how come you came this way?
You're throwing everybody
around back here.
We're heading to the Starpower
competition in Connecticut.
And this is going to be tough.
The judges are going
to be looking for technique, of course,
showmanship, costuming, and passion.
So when the dancers step out there,
they're truly passionate about their craft
and what they're doing.
Mackenzie!
Here!
-Maddie!
-Here!
ABBY: Cathy is too good for us.
She gets to ride in the Mercedes
while we're on the bus?
Who does she think she is?
We all know it's a C Class.
(upbeat music playing)
The woman at the wig shop
thought I was crazy,
getting an Afro for 10-year-old girl.
Oh, you ended up getting one?
-I found one.
-CHRISTI: Is it blonde?
(laughter)
HOLLY: That would have been--
that would have been good.
There are lots of wigs
I would like to choose from for Nia.
I would never select an Afro wig.
I would like for Nia to be beautiful
and not stereotyped
as someone with an Afro from the '70s.
(upbeat music playing)
(laughter)
I thought you liked Gummy Worms!
Getting sleep on a bus
with a bunch of kids
just doesn't work.
(upbeat music playing)
(cheering and applause)
CHRISTI: So here we are at Starpower,
and this is the big competition for us.
Our girls need to do really well.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Moms, they're running
30 minutes ahead.
So get the makeup on
as quickly as possible
so that we have time to run this number.
That's more important.
MELISSA: Maddie, how's that--
how's it feel?
-Does it feel good?
-Not really.
MELISSA: Do you have
to go to the bathroom?
-Maddie has to go to--you have--no.
-No, I don't.
MELLISA: Maddie, listen to me.
You have to cooperate with me.
But it's not right.
MELLISA: We had 30 minutes
to get our kids ready.
They had to be stretched.
We had to put French twists in their hair,
fake eyelashes, all their makeup.
It was crazy.
Maddie, you have one number
to dance and that's it.
You're going to deal with it.
Be a grownup.
I'm sick of this attitude.
I can't deal with Maddie's attitude.
She's eight years old
and sometimes she thinks she's 16.
-Maddie, you need earrings first.
-Not those.
No. Maddie, calm down, please.
I'm a perfectionist.
I don't like to be rushed
when I'm doing my makeup and hair.
MELISSA: Guess what?
Do you want to go home?
You're never like this. Stop it.
KELLY: Melissa's always
freaking out on Maddie
before the competitions.
I feel bad for Maddie.
ABBY: Maddie, go do some turns
and see if that hair moves, please.
What was that about? What was that?
Melissa is always on time,
always prepared,
always where she needs to be.
And when that doesn't happen
exactly as she planned,
then she gets worked up.
And that, in turn, works up her daughters.
Girls--sh, stop.
There are 1,500 numbers.
Okay?
You're the first thing you're going
to see from Abby Lee Miller.
Do you understand how important it is?
Be respectful backstage.
When you come off the stage,
I don't care if it was good,
bad or otherwise.
You act like it was the best time
you ever danced.
Do you understand me?
This is what we have been
working for all season.
Today is what matters, right now
in 10 minutes.
Do you understand?
(upbeat music playing)
(dramatic music playing)
MELISSA: Every single competition
is really important to us
because each competition
is one step closer to Nationals.
(cheering and applause)
ANNOUNCER: Please help me
welcome Make You Mine,
number 128.
(cheering and applause)
SINGER: ♪Slip my lace on,
put on my make-up ♪
♪Slide stiletto shoes on
to get my groove on♪
♪(indistinct) put the Chanel on
with a little lip gloss ♪
♪To knock your socks off
so we can get it on ♪
♪I'm going to make you mine ♪
♪Make you feel good ♪
♪I'll be your fantasy ♪
ABBY: Why is she so far stage left?
Nia missed a big glissade.
I corrected her over and over,
and she still did it wrong.
No excuses.
SINGER: ♪Make you feel good ♪
♪I'll be your fantasy ♪
♪I'm your fantasy girl ♪
(cheering and applause)
HOLLY: During the Make You Mine
performance,
Nia was a little off.
I just hope Abby's not too hard on her.
(tense music playing)
We were terrible.
I'm really embarrassed.
(dramatic music playing)
We were terrible.
MELISSA: Maddie is really upset right now.
The group just performed
and she doesn't feel
that they performed
to the best of their ability.
GIRL: Hey.
ABBY: Girls, I'm talking to you right now
because I'm disappointed.
Now, why were you crying?
I got hurt a little.
ABBY: You got hurt a little?
What happened?
When I jumped off my chairs
I twisted my ankle.
ABBY: Okay.
MELISSA: Maddie was upset
because Nia did not do well.
But she told Abby she was upset
because she twisted her ankle.
ABBY: Nobody knows the dance.
MELISSA: She has to go to the bathroom.
Did that say registration? Yeah.
I'm inquiring about the photogenic award.
I entered Vivi in a photogenic contest.
We haven't had the opportunity
to do the costume catalog thing yet.
Now I got a mess going on, here.
I thought that this would be a good start
to maybe start to pursue
something like that.
-Incline your head. Okay.
-Your hands are cold.
You're going to have--all right.
I won't touch you, then.
I feel like the eyelashes are drooping.
Do I need to staple your eyebrows up?
Don't look scared.
Don't look like somebody is goosing you.
I'm feeling like you're a bum model.
Come on, look alive.
Look at me and smile.
Big smile--big, big, big!
Get it. Click!
Smile!
Ugh!
You're just going
to look over your shoulder?
She should have her hands down.
PHOTOGRAPHER: Look at me and smile.
-Okay?
-CATHY: Okay, that's cute.
Don't change your face.
Freeze your face.
You look like a pug.
-Oh, now she's running the show.
-(laughs)
CATHY: I went in with the attitude
that I was going to do all
of the posing for Vivi-Anne,
and Vivi just took off.
She just went off on her own.
Big smile.
I was amazed because
she really started to perform,
and she was doing cute little poses,
and she was coming up
with ideas all on her own.
-Whatever you want to do, honey.
-Just do whatever you feel like.
I've just been fired.
PHOTOGRAPHER: (laughs)
(cheering and applause)
Now let's give a (indistinct).
ABBY: It's very important
that the girls win for the group numbers.
They win all the time for their solos.
That's easy.
It's much more difficult
to do a group routine.
Everybody has to be in sync,
timing issues, spatial awareness,
everybody on the same count
at the same time.
When your group wins, you've won.
ANNOUNCER: Only 4/10 of a point
separate first from third.
Third place is,
Gratitude, number 124.
(cheering and applause)
Your second place world champion today is,
Make You Mine, number 128.
(applause)
Name your studio,
and who's the choreographer.
Abby Lee Dance Company.
MELISSA: Our girls definitely
deserved first place.
We were totally shocked.
(dramatic music playing)
-Why? these don't hurt.
-No, I meant on the left.
Let me see.
I just want to tell you that Babcia
would have been so proud of you.
You know, her and I
were close like you and I,
except we didn't fight
like you and I fight.
(laughs)
Because you're too much
of a perfectionist.
But she meant so much to me.
She was my best friend,
like you and I are.
That's why you remind me so much of her.
She loved angels, you know?
And when she died, I took her hat--
you know the angels that we always put on?
But this is the special--
most special angel.
This was her favorite little angel,
so let's pin it on you. okay?
My mom wore this pin on her hat
every day when she had cancer.
And she would have loved to see my kids
dance the way they dance.
And giving this pin to my daughter
means the world to me.
Do you know, whenever you go on stage
I always pray for her
to be on stage with you.
I totally believe that my mom
is always with my daughter
when she's on stage, always.
Do really good today, okay?
And think of her when you're on stage.
She'll be there with you.
(chuckles) I love me so much.
I'm doing this dance, Angel,
for my grandmother, Babcia.
And I hope she's proud,
and I know that she's watching me
from Heaven.
(applause)
(dramatic music playing)
SINGER: ♪You are the sky,
the moon at night ♪
♪You are my life, a shining light ♪
♪These things, I've learned
are never ending ♪
♪Stories we will tell ♪
♪You don't know by the song you sing ♪
♪You don't know how much joy you bring ♪
♪You are my angel, angel ♪
♪Asleep inside your halo, halo ♪
♪I'm right beside you ♪
♪And you know, you know
how much you're loved ♪
♪I know you forever will be mine ♪
MELISSA: I never get tired
of watching Maddie dance.
She always brings tears to my eyes.
SINGER: ♪I'm right beside you ♪
♪And you know, you know
how much you're loved ♪
♪I know you forever will be my angel ♪
♪Forever will be my angel ♪
(cheering and applause)
MELISSA: Maddie did her solo
so wonderful today.
I'm so proud of her,
and Babcia would be proud of her, too.
(upbeat music playing)
All right. My thing's all... (laughs)
Look at my sewing!
Look! It's, like, all--
(laughter)
WOMAN: Ah, it's because I'm rushed.
HOLLY: Look. This actually for the style--
'70s Party Afro.
You should have seen the woman
at the store, "Is that for you?"
It's offensive that Abby asked me
to go out and buy an Afro wig.
Why is she asking me?
I think it's very stereotypical.
CATHY: Why she's always depicting
this Afro-American looking thing that--
-I know.
-CATHY: Yeah.
-And Nia's more than just that.
-CATHY: And why the wig?
Nia's solos have appeared to be going
in a particular direction.
The solo that she's now doing,
she's got an Afro wig on
and she's portraying Latifah,
LaQuifa, somebody.
And I just--I feel bad.
There's so many cute things
-that she could do, you know?
-HOLLY: I know.
CATHY: It's almost starting
to be not politically correct.
Holly is a little hysterical
over this, I think.
I think that this is starting
to really play and wear on Holly.
Don't you let that affect you.
Because you know what?
You are going to go out and just smash it.
-Right. See?
-See? You're going to kill it.
You could be one of my dancers.
KELLY: I think Nia does get typed
with her numbers,
but everybody does.
Brooke has done an acrobatic routine
since she was six years old.
She's never been given anything else.
And there's many other things
Brooke could do.
Like, Brooke could do a lyrical number,
but Abby just doesn't give it to her
because she's typed as an acro.
(tense music playing)
HOLLY: I felt I was put
an awful situation.
I don't want to pull her from a dance.
She's worked hard.
She deserves to be in that dance.
At the same time, I don't feel comfortable
with her being on stage dressed that way.
(tense music playing)
(cheering and applause)
ABBY: All of the girls
are either doing a solo or a duet
here at Starpower this week.
So they need to make sure
the technique is in check,
the legs are straight,
the feet are pointed,
and they bring their own
personality to the routine.
ANNOUNCER: If you will please
put your hands together (indistinct).
SINGER: ♪ Summer seems to go so fast ♪
♪ I guess the good times never last ♪
SINGER: ♪ Beautiful, dangerous ♪
♪ On a parallel universe ♪
♪ Earth shattering, it's a curse ♪
SINGER: ♪ Listen, baby,
I'm going to put you on my hot list ♪
♪ My gotta get, gotta,
gotta, gotta get this ♪
SINGER: ♪ Ooh, I love you
the same as before ♪
(cheering and applause)
(upbeat music playing)
JUDGE: Let's go onto number three,
Vivi-Anne.
CATHY: I entered Vivi
in the Miss Photogenic contest,
and we took some fabulous pictures.
I just hope that those judges know
what they're doing,
and that they pick the right girl
and it's Vivi, of course.
It's too much like she's on stage
instead of just taking
-a photo of her beauty.
-WOMAN: It's cute. No, it's cute.
It is cute, but she's about to go
into musical theater.
I absolutely think she's got
on some, like, stage makeup.
Yes, she does.
It's totally about to go on.
And I think that's, like,
reinforced eyebrows
and eyelashes, as a matter of fact.
And it's kind of blurry.
Yeah. It's actually not the most--
best quality picture, either.
WOMAN: She's got a costume on.
Unless, of course.
She wears sequins on a daily basis,
-which I do--but that's okay.
-And it's no centered.
-I know you do.
-Yes.
-It's not centered.
-WOMAN: And not good lighting.
Okay, this is a no?
-Yeah, not today.
-Okay, great.
Moving on--
(upbeat music playing)
ANNOUNCER: For the title of Petite Miss,
here at the Mohegan Sun.
Maddie.
(cheering and applause)
ANNOUNCER: Congratulations to you, Maddie.
MELISSA: Maddie has six crowns now,
and her goal is to make it
to the double digits.
-Oh, my god, Maddie!
-ABBY: Woo!
MELISSA: (LAUGHS)
Congratulations!
See sometimes less is more.
(indistinct)
(upbeat music playing)
CATHY: We're going to sit
and look at these, okay?
Oh, man. Ugh.
Where's what the cute poses
that you were doing?
The photogenic award was nestled
in between all of the other awards.
I have no idea how many kids
were in the contest.
They did give three places out,
and Vivi was not awarded
any of those three places.
I'm going to tell you what.
That photographer--
no wonder he's working at competitions.
Because he's no professional.
You don't even look like you're smiling.
I should have had red lipstick on you.
The photographer was a goof.
Despite how bad he was,
the judges should have
seen the potential in Vivi.
These are horrendous.
I mean, no, you're beautiful.
But these pictures--
I don't understand what the guy was doing.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Nia is doing a character piece
entitled LaQuifa.
I need Nia to know the ethnic dances.
Those dances come from a heritage,
and they have to be done correctly.
My MC wants to know how
to properly pronounce your routine.
They Call Me LaQuifa.
Gotcha. Thank you.
HOLLY: I'm really apprehensive
about this dance.
I don't like the song.
I don't like the costume.
I don't like the theme.
Come on. It's called LaQuifa.
ANNOUNCER: They Call Me LaQuifa.
(upbeat music playing)
SINGER: ♪ They call me LaQuifa,
with a postmodern pim--what? ♪
♪ They call me LaQuifa with
a postmodern pim--what? ♪
♪ LaQuifa! What? ♪
♪ LaQuifa! What? What? ♪
♪ I said, what? I said, what? ♪
♪ I said--I--I--I said, what? ♪
♪ I said, what? I said, what?
I said, what? ♪
♪ Baby, they call--baby they call ♪
♪ What? What? What? What? What? ♪
♪ What? What? What? What? ♪
♪ Work the Hallelu--
work the Hallelu--work the Hallelu-- ♪
Work the--work the--
work the Hallelu--work the Hallelu--
♪Work the Hallelu--work the... ♪
(cheering and applause)
HOLLY: It was very disappointing.
I came to see a dance
and I saw my daughter walking
across the stage, beautifully.
It was entertaining,
but it was not dancing.
ABBY: Oh, ugh.
HOLLY: Can I talk to you for a moment?
-Sure. Sure.
-HOLLY: Maybe outside.
I have held my tongue long enough,
and I'm tired of this.
It is time for me to be direct
and have a heart-to-heart with Abby now.
It's still really unnerving for me
that she's wearing a wig.
It's 2011
and she's wearing a '70s Afro wig.
It's the whole idea it's an Afro,
it just seems so stereotypical.
It is stereotypical, absolutely.
I just feel like
she's the token black kid.
I wouldn't use the word token.
I would use the word...
-(indistinct)
-...affluent and special and--
-It doesn't come across that way.
-Listen.
Asmeret is not going to school
for four years for free
on the Martin Luther King Scholarship
because she's white.
If I send her to an audition,
it's going to be an ethnic call.
Nobody else is going to get to go but her.
When they want to hire
an African-American kid,
they hire an African-American kid.
But when I'm thinking of--
I'm looking at Nia.
All of her routines,
it seems, is like, a jungle theme.
There's a Satan theme.
It's like, there's a little undertone,
a nuance that
is like, a little bit of a negativity,
that I would just like something
that's a little bit more celebratory.
Well, then you pick the music,
and you hire the choreographer,
and she can do the number.
Abby, we don't have to go there.
-All I'm trying to do--
-Well, we--you're going there.
-HOLLY: No, I'm not.
-We don't have a problem.
What I'm giving her works
for her movements,
for what she does well.
She doesn't have good feet.
She doesn't have great turnout.
She doesn't straighten her knees.
She's sway back.
I'm telling you very nicely,
pick the music,
-pick the choreographer--nobody...
-Abby, come on. That's not fair.
...but not one kid pays me $30
grand a year.
And if you do, I will be a lot nicer
and I'll sit down
and we can have a big conference about it.
-Well, you know what?
-But for $250 bucks a month,
go somewhere else.
-That's the way it is.
-First of all, I don't pay $250 a month.
-That's the first thing.
-To me, you do.
HOLLY: No, I don't.
Look how I dress. Look where I live.
Look what I pay.
I pay what--almost $100,000 a year
in private school tuition
and you're telling me I can't afford you?
-I did not say that. I said--
-Pretty much, you did.
-No, I did not.
-And you have my kid dress up in an Afro?
-Let's not go there.
-ABBY: I did not say that.
I am Ivy League educated
and my husband is.
I said that if every customer paid me...
-We have a lot of capitol.
-...$30,000 a year...
-Okay.
-...that I would be glad to sit down
-and have a conversation with you.
-Think closely about your--
think closely about your words.
ABBY: Holly comes from a world of books.
She doesn't come from my world.
I am trying to give her daughter
more opportunities.
Nia could go in for any ethnic role
and nail it,
but she needs to have
the dance background.
And Holly keeps fighting it on me.
But I'm telling you
this with all sincerity.
There's a lot of teachers out there.
If you're not happy,
look through the Yellow Pages.
HOLLY: I am fed up with Abby.
Abby needs to learn
that my daughter's a dancer first,
she's not ethnicity first.